Changed some things in the Preparation section, more soon (#2)
Miepee/AM2R-Modding-Wiki: content/utmt/rooms/creating new rooms/design/_index.md

For puzzles and other uses, you can also search for `missile`, `bomb`, `smissile` and other destroyable blocks. Keep in mind that these blocks, as well as solid blocks, are invisible and do not appear without putting tiles over them or giving them creation code. 
For this, there are two solutions:
1. Add creation code for each of them and use `tile_link(tileset,x,y)` as its content. It will link the block to a tileset and automatically use a 16 x 16 size. The x and y coordinates correspond with the top-left corner of the breakable block.
2. Place a tile in the position where the breakable block will be, and set the depth of that tile to either `-111` or `-112`.

{{<hint type="tip">}}
Here are all the breakable Blocks, along with what they are commonly refered to:
- `oBlockShoot`; Beam blocks
- `oBlockStep`; Crumble blocks
- `oBlockBomb`; Bomb blocks
- `oBlockMissile`; Missile blocks
- `oBlockSMissile`; Super Missile Blocks
- `oBlockSpeed`; Speedboost Blocks
- `oBlockPBomb`; Power bomb blocks
- `oBlockScrew`; Screw attack blocks
Some breakables (namely Shoot, Bomb and PBomb) also have Chain Variants.
{{</hint>}}

{{< img name="breakablesSetup" size=origin >}}

> For backgrounds, you should place an `oBackground` object somewhere in the room. Usually they are placed in the top-left of the room. The `oBackground` needs `creation code` to function. Without it, the game will crash when trying to load the room. Right click on `Code` in the viewer on the left side and then click add. This will open a blank text window. As with rooms, object creation code follows a naming convention, starting with `gml_RoomCC_`, followed by the name of the room the object is located in (in our case it would be `rm_a1a13`), which is then followed by the code entry's ID (the number that automatically generates when you first add your code element, in our case `9808`) and finally `_Create`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For backgrounds, you should place an `oBackground` object somewhere in the room. Usually they are placed in the top-left of the room. The `oBackground` needs creation code to function. Without it, the game will crash when trying to load the room. Right click on `Code` in the viewer on the left side and then click `add`. This will open a blank text window. As with rooms, object creation code follows a naming convention, starting with `gml_RoomCC_`, followed by the name of the room the object is located in (in our case it would be `rm_a1a13`), which is then followed by the code entry's ID (the number that automatically generates when you first add your code element, in our case `9808`) and finally `_Create`.
```

---
title: Design
weight: 1
resources:
  - name: decorationTiling
    src: "decorationTiling.png"
    title: And finally the decoration and background tiles.
  - name: oobTiling
    src: "oobTiling.png"
    title: Then we add the out of bounds tiles.
  - name: initialTiling
    src: "initialTiling.png"
    title: First we start with the tiles the player is meant to interact with.
  - name: breakablesSetup
    src: "breakablesSetup.png"

>     title: Note that there are still tiles behind the bomb blocks, set at depth `-111`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    title: Note that there are still tiles behind the bomb blocks, set at depth "-111"
```

  - name: initialCollision
    src: "initialCollision.png"
    title: Our room with added solids and slopes
  - name: bgInUTMT
    src: "bgInUTMT.png"
    title: While you can't see the background in the editor...
  - name: bgInGame
    src: "bgInGame.png"
    title: ...it will show up in game.
  - name: creationCodeBG
    src: "creationCodeBG.png"

>     title: The create code for our oBackG

Reviewer: ?

For this, there are two solutions:
1. Add creation code for each of them and use `tile_link(tileset,x,y)` as its content. It will link the block to a tileset and will automatically use a 16 x 16 size. The x and y coordinates correspond with the top-left corner of the breakable block. 
2. Place a tile in the position where the breakable block will be, and set the depth of that tile to either `-111` or `-112`.

{{<hint type="tip">}}
Here are all the Breakable Blocks, along with what they are commonly refered to:
- `oBlockShoot`; Break blocks
- `oBlockShootChain`; A chain of break blocks
- `oBlockStep`; Crumble blocks
- `oBlockBomb`; Bomb blocks
- `oBlockBombChain`; A chain of bomb blocks
- `oBlockMissile`; Missile blocks
- `oBlockSMissile`; Super Missile Blocks
- `oBlockSpeed`; Speedboost Blocks
- `oBlockPBomb`; Power bomb blocks
- `oBlockPBombChain`; A chain of Power bomb blocks
- `oBlockScrew`; Screw attack blocks
{{</hint>}}

{{< img name="breakablesSetup" size=origin >}}

> For backgrounds, you should place an `oBackground` object somewhere in the room. Usually they are placed in the top-left of the room. The `oBackground` needs create code to function, without it, it will crash the game when trying to load the room. Right click on Code on the left side and then click add. This will open a blank text window. As with rooms, create code follows a naming convention, starting with `gml_RoomCC_` followed by the name of the room the object is located in (in our case it would be `rm_a1a13`) which is then followed by the codes own ID (the number that automatically generates when you first add your code element, in our case `9808`) and finally `_Create`.  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For backgrounds, you should place an `oBackground` object somewhere in the room. Usually they are placed in the top-left of the room. The `oBackground` needs `creation code` to function. Without it, the game will crash when trying to load the room. Right click on `Code` in the viewer on the left side and then click add. This will open a blank text window. As with rooms, object creation code follows a naming convention, starting with `gml_RoomCC_`, followed by the name of the room the object is located in (in our case it would be `rm_a1a13`), which is then followed by the code entry's ID (the number that automatically generates when you first add your code element, in our case `9808`) and finally `_Create`.  
```

> For the actual code itself, we only need one line to make the `oBackground` object function: `load_bgset(value)` where value decides what background will be used.  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For the actual code itself, we only need one line to make the `oBackground` object function: `load_bgset(value)`, where value decides what background will be used.  
```

> If you want to check what value corresponds to what background, open `gml_Script_load_bgset`. Here you will see if conditions in the format of `if (argument0 == value)`. Inside the code block following these condition there will be a line with `bgid[0]`. `CTRL` click on the number after the = and select the thing that start with bg. If you then `CTRL` click on it again you will be taken to a seperate page, showing you what background belongs to the value of the if condition.  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you want to check what value corresponds to what background, open the `gml_Script_load_bgset` script. Here you will see if conditions in the format of `if (argument0 == value)`. Inside the code block following these condition, there will be a line with `bgid[0]`. `CTRL` click on the number after the = and select the entry that has with `UndertaleBackground` in brackets. If you then `CTRL` click on it again, you will be taken to a separate page, showing you what background belongs to the value of that if condition.  
```

Alternatively, you can always check an existing `oBackground` in a room that has the background that you want, and just take the value from there.

{{< img name="creationCodeBG" size=origin >}}

{{<hint type="note">}}

> Remember to actually attach the create code to the object you created it for, objects like `oBackground` will not function and crash when you try to load the room they are located in.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Remember to actually attach the creation code to the object you created it for. Objects like `oBackground` will not function properly and crash without them when you try to load the room they are located in.
```

---
title: Design
weight: 1
---

TODO: having some more screenshots in here would be nice. Also fix some phrasing.

> Now we come to actually laying out and "building" your room. For this, there are two main steps; Setting up Collision and Tiling. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now we come to actually laying out and "building" your room. For this, there are two main steps; Setting up collision and tiling. 
```

> It is generally recommended to do tiling first, as UTMT will always put the visuals for collision blocks in the foreground, meaning that doing tiling afterwards is a horrible experience.

Reviewer: as note perhaps?

> To give your room form, you can put tiles from the many different tilesets. Each tile is added individually by right clicking in the tiles section, selecting add new tile, and then dragging the tile set that you want to use over from the left. This will be a slow process. Each unit or block that represents a tile is 16 x 16 pixels large, and can be selected manually by setting the source position and size or clicking on what tile you want, however the latter option is sometimes not as good for tilesets that aren't limited to blocks. It is recommended to use an image editor to find the coordinates of specific points for the former option. Tiles that are a multiple of 16x16 can be selected by holding `ALT` while click-dragging over the tileset thumbnail in the tile's properties.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To give your room form, you can place tiles from the many different tilesets. Each tile is added individually by right clicking in the tiles section, selecting `add new tile`, and then dragging the tileset that you want to use over from the left into the definition. This will be a slow process. Each unit or block that represents a tile is 16x16 pixels pixels large, and can be selected manually by setting the source position and size or selected automatically by clicking on the tile you want. However the latter option is sometimes not as good for tilesets which aren't limited to blocks. It is helpful to use an image editor to find the coordinates of specific points for the former option. Tiles that are a multiple of 16x16 can be selected by holding `ALT` while dragging over the tileset thumbnail in the tile's properties.
```

> Take note of the depth variable when adding tiles. Since UTMT does not have a layer system, this value is what decides what tiles are in the foreground and which are in the background, with lower values being shown in front of higher values.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Take note of the depth variable when adding tiles. Since UTMT does not have a layer system, this value is what decides which tiles are in the foreground and which are in the background, with lower values being shown in front of higher values.
```

Take note of the depth variable when adding tiles. Since UTMT does not have a layer system, this value is what decides which tiles are in the foreground and which are in the background, with lower values being shown in front of higher values.

{{<hint type="tip">}}
Here are some depth values to take note of:
- Backgrounds: 100
- Samus: -1
- Foreground: -100
- Breakable Blocks: -111/-112
- Fading Tiles: -120 (Do not work without an `oFadeTiles` object)
{{</hint>}}

> Something you can use to make the tiling process a lot faster is to copy existing tiles by holding alt and dragging them around the room. This will copy everything from that tile, including depth and tileset. This drastically speeds up the tiling process.  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Something you can use to make the tiling process a lot faster is to duplicate existing tiles by holding `ALT` while click-dragging them in the room preview. This will copy everything from that tile, including `depth` and `tileset`. This drastically speeds up the tiling process, as you then don't have to manually assign the same values to every tile.  
```

> It is recommended to start with the tiles that the player will actually interact with, then adding stuff outside the playable area and background decorations.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It is recommended to start with the tiles that the player will interact with, then adding stuff outside the playable area and lastly the background decorations.
```

{{<columns>}}
{{< img name="initialTiling" size=origin >}}
<--->
{{< img name="oobTiling" size=origin >}}
<--->
{{< img name="decorationTiling" size=origin >}}
{{</columns>}}

> Now we can begin adding collision, for this we will use objects, notably `oSolid1` and `oSlope(1-4)`. On the left `Filter by name...` box, search for `Solid`. Here you will find all types of Solids, though for most purposes, `oSolid1` will be all you need. You can add it just by dragging the object into the room and placing it where you want it, then you can scale it to fit your needs. Then, for sloped surfaces you can use the `oSlope(1-4)` and `oSlope(1-4)B`. Don't try to rotate these objects, instead, if the slope doesn't have the correct orientation, take a slope with a different number and drag it into the definition box of your selected slop until you find the one with the right orientation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now we can begin adding collision. For this we will use objects, in particular `oSolid1` and `oSlope(1-4)`. On the left `Filter by name...` box, search for `solid`. Here you will find all types of solids, though for most purposes, `oSolid1` will be all you need. You can add it by dragging the object into the room, placing it where you want it, and optionally scale it to fit your needs. For sloped surfaces you can use the `oSlope(1-4)` and `oSlope(1-4)B` objects. Do not rotate these, instead, if the slope doesn't have the correct orientation, take a slope with a different number and drag it into the definition box of your selected slope until you find the one with the right orientation.
```

{{<hint type="warning">}}

> Never Delete objects, or basically anything in UTMT. Everything in UTMT is organized in a large list, with the newest addition always located in the bottom. Deleting something that is not literally the last thing in this list can have unforseen consequences and will often break things. If you mistakenly put the wrong object in your room, replace it with another object that you actually need (Just drag an object from into the definition box of your misplaced object)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Never delete objects, or basically anything in UTMT. Everything in UTMT is organized in a large list, with the newest addition always located in the bottom. Deleting something that is not the last thing in its list can have unforseen consequences and will almost always break things. If you mistakenly put the wrong object in your room, replace it with another object that you actually need (by dragging the new object into the definition box of your misplaced object).
```

{{</hint>}}

> For puzzles and other uses, you can also search for `missile`, `bomb`, `super missile` and other destroyable blocks. Keep in mind that these blocks, as well as solid blocks, are invisible and do not appear without putting tiles over them or giving them creation code.  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For puzzles and other uses, you can also search for `missile`, `bomb`, `smissile` and other destroyable blocks. Keep in mind that these blocks, as well as solid blocks, are invisible and do not appear without putting tiles over them or giving them creation code.  
```

For this, there are two solutions:

> 1. Add creation code for each of them and use `tile_link(tileset,x,y)` as its content. It will link the block to a tileset and will automatically use a 16 x 16 size. The x and y coordinates correspond with the top-left corner of the breakable block. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Add creation code for each of them and use `tile_link(tileset,x,y)` as its content. It will link the block to a tileset and automatically use a 16 x 16 size. The x and y coordinates correspond with the top-left corner of the breakable block. 
```

2. Place a tile in the position where the breakable block will be, and set the depth of that tile to either `-111` or `-112`.

{{<hint type="tip">}}

> Here are all the Breakable Blocks, along with what they are commonly refered to:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Here are all the breakable Blocks, along with what they are commonly refered to:
```

> - `oBlockShoot`; Break blocks

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `oBlockShoot`; Beam blocks
```

- `oBlockShootChain`; A chain of break blocks
- `oBlockStep`; Crumble blocks
- `oBlockBomb`; Bomb blocks
- `oBlockBombChain`; A chain of bomb blocks
- `oBlockMissile`; Missile blocks
- `oBlockSMissile`; Super Missile Blocks
- `oBlockSpeed`; Speedboost Blocks
- `oBlockPBomb`; Power bomb blocks
- `oBlockPBombChain`; A chain of Power bomb blocks
- `oBlockScrew`; Screw attack blocks

> {{</hint>}}

Reviewer: Instead of listing the chain for every block, just add a general `"Chain" are for chains for that block type` entry

Now you can add breakable blocks in your room!  

For backgrounds, you should place an `oBackground` object somewhere in the room. Usually they are placed in the top-left of the room. The `oBackground` object has create code `load_bgset(value)`. The value is the set of backgrounds the object will use. For example, `load_bgset(7)` will put the Area 4 background sprites in the background. The best way to determine this is finding an `oBackground` object in a different room in the same area as yours or the area your prefer and copying it or its creation code to yours. Your room now has a background with parallax movement!

TODO: above is false, you can easily check what value is used for load_bgset by checking the appropriate script, and then ctrl+clicking the number next to `bgid[0]` under the `argument0 == value` condition.

> Now, your room's collision and destroyable blocks are all layed out, you could even test it out in game right now, but currently you cannot get into your room. For this we will need transitions. Covered in the next page

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now, your room's collision and destroyable blocks are all laid out. You could even test it out in game right now, but currently you cannot get into your room. For this we will need transitions.
```
